# 1.11.1 JTAG and SBW Lock Mechanism (Electronic Fuse)

A device can be protected from unauthorized access by restricting accessibility of JTAG commands that can be
transferred to the device by the JTAG and SBW interface. This is achieved by programming the electronic fuse. When the
device is protected, the JTAG and SBW interface remains functional, but JTAG commands that give direct access into the
device are completely disabled. Locking the device requires the programming of two signatures in FRAM. JTAG Signature 1
(memory address 0FF80h) and JTAG Signature 2 (memory address 0FF82h) control the behavior of the device locking
mechanism.

> [!NOTE]
> When a device has been protected, TI cannot access the device for a customer return. Access is only possible if a
> BSL is provided with its corresponding key or an unlock mechanism is provided by the customer.

A device can be locked by writing any value other than 0000h or FFFFh to both JTAG Signature 1 and JTAG Signature 2. In
this case, the JTAG and SBW interfaces grant access to a limited JTAG command set that restricts accessibility into the
device. The only way to unlock the device in this case is to use the BSL to overwrite the JTAG signatures with 0000h or
FFFFh. Some JTAG commands are still possible when the device is secured, including the BYPASS command (see IEEE
Std 1149-2001) and the JMB_EXCHANGE command, which allows access to the JTAG Mailbox System (see
Section 1.10.4 for details).

Signatures that have been entered do not take effect until the next BOR event has occurred, at which time the
signatures are checked.

