# 1.3.4.1 Interrupt Acceptance

The interrupt latency is six cycles, starting with the acceptance of an interrupt request and lasting
until the start of execution of the first instruction of the interrupt service routine, as shown in
Figure 1-3. The interrupt logic executes the following:

1. Any currently executing instruction is completed.
1. The `PC`, which points to the next instruction, is pushed onto the stack.
1. The `SR` is pushed onto the stack.
1. The interrupt with the highest priority is selected if multiple interrupts occurred during the last
   instruction and are pending for service.
1. The interrupt request flag resets automatically on single-source flags. Multiple source flags remain
   set for servicing by software.
1. All bits of `SR` are cleared except `SCG0`, thereby terminating any low-power mode. Because the
   `GIE` bit is cleared, further interrupts are disabled.
1. The content of the interrupt vector is loaded into the `PC`; the program continues with the interrupt
   service routine at that address.

<a id="figure-1-3"></a>

## Before

| SP  | Stack  | TOS |
| --- | ------ | --- |
|     | Item 1 |     |
| --> | Item 2 | <-- |

## After

| SP  | Stack  | TOS |
| --- | ------ | --- |
|     | Item 1 |     |
|     | Item 2 |     |
|     | PC     |     |
| --> | SR     | <-- |

**Figure 1-3. Interrupt Processing**

> [!NOTE]
> Enabling and Disable Interrupt<br>
> Due to the pipelined CPU architecture, the instruction following the enable interrupt instruction
> `EINT` is always executed, even if an interrupt service request is pending when the interrupts are
> enabled.
> If the enable interrupt instruction (`EINT`) is immediately followed by a disable interrupt instruction
> (`DINT`), a pending interrupt might not be serviced. Further instructions after `DINT` might execute
> incorrectly and result in unexpected CPU execution. It is recommended to always insert at least one
> instruction between `EINT` and `DINT`. Note that any alternative instruction use that sets and
> immediately clears the CPU status register `GIE` bit must be considered in the same fashion.
