# 1.4.3.1 Enter LPMx.5

Follow these steps to enter LPMx.5:

1. Store any information that must be available after wakeup from LPMx.5 in FRAM.
1. For LPM4.5 set all ports to general-purpose I/Os (`PxSEL0` = 00h and `PxSEL1` = 00h).<br>
   For LPM3.5 if the LF crystal oscillator is used do not change the settings for the I/Os shared with the
   LF-crystal-oscillator. These pins must be configured as `LFXIN` and `LFXOUT`. Set all other port pins to
   general-purpose I/Os with `PxSEL0` and `PxSEL1` bits equal to 0.
1. Set the port pin direction and output bits as necessary for the application.
1. To enable a wakeup from an I/O do the following:
   1. Select the wakeup edge (`PxIES`)
   1. Clear the interrupt flag (`PxIFG`)
   1. Set the interrupt enable bit (`PxIE`)
1. For LPM3.5, the modules that stay active must be enabled. For example, the RTC must be enabled if necessary. Only
   modules connected to the RTC LDO can stay active.
1. For LPM3.5, enable any interrupt sources from these modules as wakeup sources, if necessary. See the corresponding
   module chapter.
1. Disable the watchdog timer WDT if it is enabled and in watchdog mode. If the WDT is enabled and in watchdog mode,
   the device does not enter LPMx.5.
1. Clear the `GIE` bit:<br>
   `BIC #GIE, SR`
1. Do the following steps to set the `PMMREGOFF` bit in the `PMMCTL0` register:
   1. Write the correct PMM password to get write access to the PMM control registers.<br>
      `MOV.B #PMMPW_H, &PMMCTL0_H`
   1. Set PMMREGOFF bit in the PMMCTL0 register.<br>
      `BIS.B #PMMREGOFF, &PMMCTL0_L`
   1. To disable the SVS during LPMx.5, clear the SVSHE bit in PMMCTL0.<br>
      `BIC.B #SVSHE, &PMMCTL0_L`
   1. Write an incorrect PMM password to disable the write access to the PMM control registers.
      `MOV.B #000h, &PMMCTL0_H`
1. Enter LPMx.5 with the following instruction:<br>
   `BIS #CPUOFF + OSCOFF + SCG0 + SCG1, SR`

The device enters LPM3.5 if any module that is connected to the RTC LDO is enabled. The device enters LPM4.5 if none of
the modules that are connected to the RTC LDO are enabled.
