# 1.4.3 Low-Power Modes LPM3.5 and LPM4.5 (LPMx.5)

The low-power modes LPM3.5 and LPM4.5 (LPMx.5 (1)) give the lowest power consumption on a device. In LPMx.5, the core
LDO of the device is switched off. This has the following effects:

- Most of the modules are powered down.
  – In LPM3.5, only modules powered by the RTC LDO continue to operate. At least an RTC module is connected to the RTC
  LDO. See the device data sheet for other modules (if any) that are connected to the RTC LDO.
  – In LPM4.5 the RTC LDO and the connected modules are switched off.
- The register content of all modules and the CPU is lost.
- The SRAM content is lost.
- A wake-up from LPMx.5 causes a complete reset of the core.
- The application must initialize the complete device after a wakeup from LPMx.5.

The wake-up time from LPMx.5 is much longer than the wake-up time from any other power mode (see the device-specific
data sheet). This is because the core domain must power up and the device internal initialization must be done. In
addition, the application must be initialized again. Therefore, use LPMx.5 only when the application is in LPMx.5 for a
long time. Compute Through Power Loss (CTPL) is a utility API set that leverages FRAM to enable ease of use with LPMx.5
low-power modes and to provide a powerful shutdown mode that allows an application to save and restore critical system
components when a power loss is detected. Visit FRAM embedded software utilities for MSP ultra-low-power
microcontrollers for details.

(1) The abbreviation "LPMx.5" is used in this document to indicate both LPM3.5 and LPM4.5.

