# 1.9.4 Bootloader (BSL)

The bootloader (BSL) (formerly known as the bootstrap loader) is software that is executed after start-up when a
certain BSL entry condition is applied. The BSL lets the user communicate with the embedded memory in the
microcontroller during the prototyping phase, final production, and in service. All memory mapped resources, the
programmable memory (FRAM memory), the data memory (RAM), and the peripherals can be modified by the BSL as required.
The user can define custom BSL code for FRAMbased devices and protect it against erasure and unintentional or
unauthorized access.

On devices without USB, a basic BSL program is provided by TI. This supports the commonly used UART protocol with RS232
interfacing, allowing flexible use of both hardware and software. To use the BSL, a specific BSL entry sequence must be
applied to specific device pins. The correct entry sequence causes `SYSBSLIND` to be set. An added sequence of commands
initiates the desired function. A boot-loading session can be exited by continuing operation at a defined user program
address or by applying the standard reset sequence.

Access to the device memory by the BSL is protected against misuse by a user-defined password. Devices with USB have a
USB based BSL program provided by TI. For more details, see the
[MSP430 FRAM Device Bootloader (BSL) User's Guide](http://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/SLAU550).

The amount of BSL memory that is available is device specific. The BSL memory size is organized into segments. See the
device-specific data sheet for the number and size of the segments available. It is possible to assign a small amount
of RAM to the allocated BSL memory. Setting `SYSBSLR` allocates the lowest 16 bytes of RAM for the BSL. When the BSL
memory is protected, access to these RAM locations is only possible from within the protected BSL memory segments.

It may be desirable in some BSL applications to only allow changing of the Power Management Module settings from the
protected BSL segments. This is possible with the `SYSPMMPE` bit. Normally, this bit is cleared and allows access of
the `PMM` control registers from any memory location. Setting `SYSPMMPE` allows access to the `PMM` control registers
only from the protected BSL memory. After `SYSPMMPE` is set, it can only be cleared by a BOR event.