# 13.2.5.1 Output Modes

The output modes are defined by the OUTMOD bits and are described in Table 13-2. The OUTn signal is changed with the
rising edge of the timer clock for all modes except mode 0. Output modes 2, 3, 6, and 7 are not useful for output
unit 0 because EQUn = EQU0.

<a id="table-13-2"></a>

## Representation

- OUTMOD value (3-bits)
  - Mode
  - Description

## Data

- 000
  - Output
  - The output signal OUTn is defined by the OUT bit. The OUTn signal updates immediately when OUT is updated.
- 001
  - Set
  - The output is set when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. It remains set until a reset of the timer, or until
    another output mode is selected and affects the output.
- 010
  - Toggle/Reset
  - The output is toggled when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. It is reset when the timer counts to the TAxCCR0
    value.
- 011
  - Set/Reset
  - The output is set when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. It is reset when the timer counts to the TAxCCR0
    value.
- 100
  - Toggle
  - The output is toggled when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. The output period is double the timer period.
- 101
  - Reset
  - The output is reset when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. It remains reset until another output mode is
    selected and affects the output.
- 110
  - Toggle/Set
  - The output is toggled when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. It is set when the timer counts to the TAxCCR0
    value.
- 111
  - Reset/Set
  - The output is reset when the timer counts to the TAxCCRn value. It is set when the timer counts to the TAxCCR0
    value.

**Table 13-2. Output Modes**
