# 4.3.5 General-Purpose Registers (R4 to R15)

The 12 CPU registers (R4 to R15) contain 8-bit, 16-bit, or 20-bit values. Any byte-write to a CPU register clears
bits 19:8. Any word-write to a register clears bits 19:16. The only exception is the SXT instruction. The SXT
instruction extends the sign through the complete 20-bit register.

Figure 4-10 through Figure 4-14 show the handling of byte, word, and address-word data. Note the reset of the
leading most significant bits (MSBs) if a register is the destination of a byte or word instruction.

Figure 4-10 shows byte handling (8-bit data, .B suffix). The handling is shown for a source register and a
destination memory byte and for a source memory byte and a destination register.

_Register-Byte Operation_
Register Low Byte (7-0) --> Memory --> Operation --> Memory

_Byte-Register Operation_
Memory --> Register Low Byte (7-0) --> Operation --> Register Low Byte (7-0) [1]
[1] Register High Bits (19-8) have value of 0

**Figure 4-10. Register-Byte and Byte-Register Operation**

Figure 4-11 and Figure 4-12 show 16-bit word handling (.W suffix). The handling is shown for a source register and
a destination memory word and for a source memory word and a destination register.

_Register-Word Operation_
Register Word (15-0) --> Memory --> Operation --> Memory

**Figure 4-11. Register-Word Operation**

_Word-Register Operation_
Memory --> Register Word (15-0) --> Operation --> Register Word (15-0) [2]
[2] Register Bits (19-16) have value of 0

**Figure 4-12. Word-Register Operation**

Figure 4-13 and Figure 4-14 show 20-bit address-word handling (.A suffix). The handling is shown for a source
register and a destination memory address-word and for a source memory address-word and a destination register.

_Register - Address-word Operation_
Register (19-0) --> Memory + 2 (3-0) and Memory (15-0) --> Operation --> Memory + 2 (3-0) and Memory (15-0)

**Figure 4-13. Register – Address-Word Operation**

_Address-word - Register Operation_
Memory + 2 (3-0) and Memory (15-0) --> Register (19-0) --> Operation --> Register (19-0)

**Figure 4-14. Address-Word – Register Operation**
