# 4.4.1 Register Mode

## Operation

The operand is the 8-, 16-, or 20-bit content of the used CPU register.

## Length

One, two, or three words

## Comment

Valid for source and destination

## Byte operation

Byte operation reads only the eight least significant bits (LSBs) of the source register Rsrc and writes the result to
the eight LSBs of the destination register Rdst. The bits Rdst.19:8 are cleared. The register Rsrc is not modified.

## Word operation

Word operation reads the 16 LSBs of the source register Rsrc and writes the result to the 16 LSBs of the destination
register Rdst. The bits Rdst.19:16 are cleared. The register Rsrc is not modified.

## Address-word operation

Address-word operation reads the 20 bits of the source register Rsrc and writes the result to the 20 bits of the
destination register Rdst. The register Rsrc is not modified.

## SXT exception

The SXT instruction is the only exception for register operation. The sign of the low byte in bit 7 is extended to the
bits Rdst.19:8.

## Example 1

`BIS.W R5, R6;`

This instruction logically ORs the 16-bit data contained in R5 with the 16-bit contents of R6. R6.19:16 is cleared.

### Before - Address Space

| Address | Value | Remark |
| ------- | ----- | ------ |
| 21036h  | xxxxh |        |
| 21034h  | D506h | PC     |

### Before - Registers

| Register | Value  |
| -------- | ------ |
| R5       | AA550h |
| R6       | 11111h |

### After - Address Space

| Address | Value | Remark |
| ------- | ----- | ------ |
| 21036h  | xxxxh | PC     |
| 21034h  | D506h |        |

### After - Registers

| Register | Value  |
| -------- | ------ |
| R5       | AA550h |
| R6       | 0B551h |

### Expected Result

A550h OR 1111h = B551h

## Example 2

`BISX.A R5, R6;`

This instruction logically ORs the 20-bit data contained in R5 with the 20-bit contents of R6.

The extension word contains the A/L bit for 20-bit data. The instruction word uses byte mode with bits A/L:B/W = 01.
The result of the instruction is:

### Before - Address Space

| Address | Value | Remark |
| ------- | ----- | ------ |
| 21036h  | xxxxh |        |
| 21034h  | D506h |        |
| 21032h  | 1800h | PC     |

### Before - Registers

| Register | Value  |
| -------- | ------ |
| R5       | AA550h |
| R6       | 11111h |

### After - Address Space

| Address | Value | Remark |
| ------- | ----- | ------ |
| 21036h  | xxxxh | PC     |
| 21034h  | D506h |        |
| 21032h  | 1800h |        |

### After - Registers

| Register | Value  |
| -------- | ------ |
| R5       | AA550h |
| R6       | BB551h |

### Expected Result

AA550h OR 11111h = BB551h
