# 4.4 Addressing Modes

Seven addressing modes for the source operand and four addressing modes for the destination operand use 16-bit or
20-bit addresses (see Table 4-3). The MSP430 and MSP430X instructions are usable throughout the entire 1MB memory
range.

## Representation Key

- As, Ad
  - Addressing mode
  - Syntax
  - Description

## Addressing Modes

- 00, 0
  - Register
  - Rn
  - Register contents are operand.
- 01, 1
  - Indexed
  - X(Rn)
  - (Rn + X) points to the operand. X is stored in the next word, or stored in combination of the preceding
    extension word and the next word.
- 01, 1
  - Symbolic
  - ADDR
  - (PC + X) points to the operand. X is stored in the next word, or stored in combination of the preceding
    extension word and the next word. Indexed mode X(PC) is used.
- 01, 1
  - Absolute
  - &ADDR
  - The word following the instruction contains the absolute address. X is stored in the next word, or stored
    in combination of the preceding extension word and the next word. Indexed mode X(SR) is used.
- 10, -
  - Indirect Register
  - @Rn
  - Rn is used as a pointer to the operand.
- 11, -
  - Indirect Autoincrement
  - @Rn+
  - Rn is used as a pointer to the operand. Rn is incremented afterwards by 1 for .B instructions, by 2 for
    .W instructions, and by 4 for .A instructions.
- 11, -
  - Immediate
  - #N
  - N is stored in the next word, or stored in combination of the preceding extension word and the next word.
    Indirect autoincrement mode @PC+ is used.

**Table 4-3. Source and Destination Addressing**

The seven addressing modes are explained in detail in the following sections. Most of the examples show the same
addressing mode for the source and destination, but any valid combination of source and destination addressing modes is
possible in an instruction.

> [!NOTE] Use of Labels EDE, TONI, TOM, and LEO
> Throughout MSP430 documentation, EDE, TONI, TOM, and LEO are used as generic labels. They are only labels and have
> no special meaning.

