# 4.6.2.14 CMP

- `CMP[.W]` - Compare source word and destination word
- `CMP.B` - Compare source byte and destination byte

## Syntax

- `CMP src, dst`
- `CMP.W src, dst`
- `CMP.B src, dst`

## Operation

(NOT src) + 1 + dst

or

dst – src

## Emulation

- `BIC #2, SR`

## Description

The source operand is subtracted from the destination operand. This is made by adding the
1s complement of the source + 1 to the destination. The result affects only the status bits in SR.

Register mode: the register bits Rdst.19:16 (.W) resp. Rdst. 19:8 (.B) are not cleared.

## Status Bits

- N Set if result is negative (src > dst), reset if positive (src = dst)
- Z Set if result is zero (src = dst), reset otherwise (src ≠ dst)
- C Set if there is a carry from the MSB, reset otherwise
- V Set if the subtraction of a negative source operand from a positive destination operand
  delivers a negative result, or if the subtraction of a positive source operand from a
  negative destination operand delivers a positive result, reset otherwise (no overflow).

## Mode Bits

OSCOFF, CPUOFF, and GIE are not affected.

## Example 1

Compare word EDE with a 16-bit constant 1800h. Jump to label TONI if EDE equals the constant. The
address of EDE is within PC + 32 K.

```asm
CMP  #01800h,  EDE  ; Compare word EDE with 1800h
JEQ  TONI           ; EDE contains 1800h
...                 ; Not equal
```

## Example 2

A table word pointed to by (R5 + 10) is compared with R7. Jump to label TONI if R7 contains a lower,
signed 16-bit number. R7.19:16 is not cleared. The address of the source operand is a 20-bit address in full memory range.

```asm
CMP.W  10(R5),  R7  ; Compare two signed numbers
JL     TONI         ; R7 < 10(R5)
...                 ; R7 >= 10(R5)
```

## Example 3

A table byte pointed to by R5 (20-bit address) is compared to the value in output Port1. Jump to
label TONI if values are equal. The next table byte is addressed.

```asm
CMP.B  @R5+,  &P1OUT  ; Compare P1 bits with table. R5 + 1
JEQ    TONI           ; Equal contents
...                   ; Not equal
```
