# 4.6.2.19 DINT

- \* `DINT` - Disable (general) interrupts

## Syntax

- `DINT`

## Operation

0 → GIE

or

(0FFF7h AND SR → SR / NOT src AND dst → dst)

## Emulation

- `BIC #8, SR`

## Description

All interrupts are disabled.

The constant 08h is inverted and logically ANDed with the SR. The result is placed into the SR.

## Status Bits

Status bits are not affected.

## Mode

Bits GIE is reset. OSCOFF and CPUOFF are not affected.

## Example

The general interrupt enable (GIE) bit in the SR is cleared to allow a nondisrupted move of a 32-bit counter.
This ensures that the counter is not modified during the move by any interrupt.

```asm
DINT               ; All interrupt events using the GIE bit are disabled
NOP
MOV  COUNTHI,  R5  ; Copy counter
MOV  COUNTLO,  R6
EINT               ; All interrupt events using the GIE bit are enabled
```

> [!NOTE] **Disable interrupt**
> <br>
> If any code sequence needs to be protected from interruption, DINT should be executed at least one
> instruction before the beginning of the uninterruptible sequence, or it should be followed by a NOP instruction.
> [!NOTE] **Enable and Disable Interrupt**
> <br>
> Due to the pipelined CPU architecture, the instruction following the enable interrupt instruction (EINT)
> is always executed, even if an interrupt service request is pending when the interrupts are enabled.
> <br>
> If the enable interrupt instruction (EINT) is immediately followed by a disable interrupt instruction (DINT),
> a pending interrupt might not be serviced. Further instructions after DINT might execute incorrectly and result
> in unexpected CPU execution. It is recommended to always insert at least one instruction between EINT and DINT.
> Note that any alternative instruction use that sets and immediately clears the CPU status register GIE bit must
> be considered in the same fashion.
