# 1.11 Device Security

This section describes options for securing the device to prevent unauthorized access from JTAG/SBW or BSL to the
device memory. See [Table 1-5](#table-1-5) for a summary of security options.

<a id="table-1-5"></a>

| Name               | Addresses      | Value                                        | Device Security                                                                               |
| ------------------ | -------------- | -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| BSL Password       | FFE0h to FFFFh | User defined +<br>Vector table configuration | This password must be provided by the BSL host<br>before the device is accessible by the BSL. |
| BSL Signature      | FF84h to FF87h | 5555_5555h                                   | BSL is disabled.                                                                              |
| BSL Signature      | FF84h to FF87h | AAAA_AAAAh                                   | BSL is password protected. Mass erase on wrong<br>BSL password feature disabled.              |
| BSL Signature      | FF84h to FF87h | Any other value                              | BSL is password protected. Mass erase on wrong<br>BSL password feature enabled.               |
| JTAG/SBW Signature | FF80h to FF83h | FFFF_FFFFh                                   | JTAG/SBW is unlocked.                                                                         |
| JTAG/SBW Signature | FF80h to FF83h | 0000_0000h                                   | JTAG/SBW is unlocked.                                                                         |
| JTAG/SBW Signature | FF80h to FF83h | Any other value                              | JTAG/SBW is locked.                                                                           |

**Table 1-5. BSL and JTAG/SBW Signatures**

## 1.11.1 JTAG and SBW Lock Mechanism (Electronic Fuse)

A device can be protected from unauthorized access by restricting accessibility of JTAG commands that can be
transferred to the device by the JTAG and SBW interface. This is achieved by programming the electronic fuse. When the
device is protected, the JTAG and SBW interface remains functional, but JTAG commands that give direct access into the
device are completely disabled. Locking the device requires the programming of two signatures in FRAM. JTAG Signature 1
(memory address 0FF80h) and JTAG Signature 2 (memory address 0FF82h) control the behavior of the device locking
mechanism.

> [!NOTE]
> When a device has been protected, TI cannot access the device for a customer return. Access is only possible if a
> BSL is provided with its corresponding key or an unlock mechanism is provided by the customer.

A device can be locked by writing any value other than 0000h or FFFFh to both JTAG Signature 1 and JTAG Signature 2. In
this case, the JTAG and SBW interfaces grant access to a limited JTAG command set that restricts accessibility into the
device. The only way to unlock the device in this case is to use the BSL to overwrite the JTAG signatures with 0000h or
FFFFh. Some JTAG commands are still possible when the device is secured, including the BYPASS command (see IEEE
Std 1149-2001) and the JMB_EXCHANGE command, which allows access to the JTAG Mailbox System (see
[Section 1.10.4](/fr4xx_fr2xx_family_user_guide/03_chapter_1/1.10_jtag_mailbox.md#1104-jmb-nmi-usage) for details).

Signatures that have been entered do not take effect until the next BOR event has occurred, at which time the
signatures are checked.

## 1.11.2 BSL Security Mechanism

Two BSL signatures, BSL Signature 1 (memory location FF84h) and BSL Signature 2 (memory location FF86h) reside in FRAM
and can be used to control the behavior of the BSL. Writing 5555h to BSL Signature 1 and BSL Signature 2 disables the
BSL function and any access to the BSL memory space causes a vacant memory access as described in
[Section 1.9](/fr4xx_fr2xx_family_user_guide/03_chapter_1/1.9_memory_map.md). Most BSL commands require the BSL to be
unlocked by a user-defined password. An incorrect password erases the device memory as a security feature. Writing
AAAAh to both BSL Signature 1 and BSL Signature 2 disables this security feature. This causes a password error to be
returned by the BSL, but the device memory is not erased. In this case, unlimited password attempts are possible.

For more details, see [MSP430 Programming With the Bootloader (BSL)](http://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/SLAU319) and the
[MSP430 FRAM Device Bootloader (BSL) User's Guide](http://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/SLAU550).
